===================
Making Solid Models
===================


Pure solid model (explicitly descritezed sandwich panels) 
=========================================================

Pure solid models can be made in Sierra SM, Sierra SD or Abaqus.
 

Continuous meshes in Sierra
----------------------------

#. The first step is to make a solid element Cubit model with
   :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.cubit.make_blade.cubit_make_solid_blade`. 

#. The next step is to compute material orientation vectors for each element with
   :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.cubit.make_blade.get_material_orientation_vectors`.

#. If Sierra SD is a target model, these orientation vectors can be assigned directly with 
   :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.cubit.make_blade.assign_material_orientation_vectors`. 

#. If Sierra SM is a target model, the orientation vectors need to be converted to Euler Angles with 
   :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.cubit.make_blade.get_material_orientation_angles`. 

#. The Euler Angles are then assigned to the mesh with 
   :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.cubit.make_blade.assign_material_orientation_angles`. 

#. Finally, the mesh needs to be exported in Genisis format
   .. code-block:: python
      cubit.cmd(f'export mesh "{wt_name}.g" overwrite')


#. Make the Sierra SM input files with :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.make_models.write_sierra_sm_model`. 

   This creates the following file:

      * sm.i : Sierra SM input file

    Be sure to have ran the following import statement

    .. code-block:: python

       from pynumad.analysis.make_models import write_sierra_sm_model


#. AND/OR Make the Sierra SD input files with :py:func:`~pynumad.analysis.make_models.write_sierra_sd_model`. 

   This creates the following files:

      * sd.i: Sierra SD input file

    Be sure to have ran the following import statement

    .. code-block:: python

       from pynumad.analysis.make_models import write_sierra_sd_model


#. Finally run Sierra SM with: launch -n 10 adagio -i sm.i, where n is the 
   number of CPUs.

#. AND/OR run Sierra SD with: launch -n 10 salinas -i sd.i, where n is the 
   number of CPUs.

An example called `cubit_solid.py` exists in the examples folder illustrates these steps.

Discontinuous meshes in Abaqus
------------------------------

The example pyNuMAD/examples/write_abaqus_solid_model.py generates a fully solid element model input file in Abaqus format, which can be imported and analyzed using Abaqus CAE.  With the ih-house mesher, the shear webs and adhesive are tied to the blade outer shell with nodal constraint equations.  These are included in the model input file generated by this example.

Layered solid model (homogenized sandwich panels)
==================================================

This capability does not yet exist.


